Hello everyone and welcome to part nine function exercises solutions lecture we're going to be going
over the solutions for the previous function exercises.
Let's go and open up the file to get started.
OK here I am at the function exercises file.
Let's start off with Problem 1 which is and remember if we wanted to have a list of integers we need
to return true if the sequence in numbers 1 2 3 appears in the list somewhere.
And basically for this and we're going to be doing is iterating through the list three at a time.
So let's show you how we can do that with this array check function.
I'm going to say for I in range and then I'll go for the length of numbers because I don't know how
long them is going to be as a list and then I will see minus two because I don't want to go all the
way to the end.
I just want to go starting from here.
So I will go minus two back because I'm going to be counting in steps at 3.
So let me show you what that looks like.
I will say if Gnome is an index I as equal to one hand numbs I plus one is equal to two.
And number of I plus two is equal to three.
Well that case that I return true if that never happens.
Meaning I never get a return true instead of that for loop that I will just return false.
And notice how this return false statement is in line with that for loop which means this entire thing
has to run through.
And if we never get a return true here then we never actually break out of this.
And then we go to return false.
OK.
So that's the basic idea.
Again lengthen them is minus two because I'm hopping over in steps of three and if I went all the way
to the end I would get an error because it would be indexing outside of the actual list.
The last one I want to go to is right here.
Lengthen them minus two indices back that way I can do the plus one and plus two checks.
All right.
Now let's go on to Problem two which was given a string return a new string of every other character
starting with the first.
So hello yields h ELO.
OK.
Now this quick moment.
There's many many ways you could do this.
In fact you could just use slicing notation.
But let me show you a really standard way to do this.
Just a loop.
And this one will work across any language we set and output to be result.
And then I will say for I in range length of the string as TR And actually there isn't a good choice
here.
So I will say my string and change this to be my string as an input
and then I will say if I to is equal to zero.
Result is equal to results plus my string at the current index which is I.
And then I'm just going to return the results.
So this is a very basic algorithmic way of solving this problem.
The other way you could do this is by actually using slice notation by skipping every other letter.
So be something like colon colon to so again here we're saying for I'd arranged the length of the string
if I had to is equal to zero meaning or on even numbers result is result plus my strain and this is
kind of the same thing as just saying my string colon colon to
all right.
Now let's continue on to problem three problem.
You were given two strains so we wanted to return true if either of the strings appears at the very
end of the other string and we could ignore case sensitivity here.
So what we can do is for ignoring case sensitivity right away just make them both lower.
So say a is equal to a lower and B is equal to be the lower and then I'm going to say return and there's
two ways we could have done this we could have used the special ends with method.
Now we didn't actually cover the ends with method so you may not have been aware of it but it looks
something like this.
You can say b dot
ends with a and or I should say or a ends with B.
And that's the way you do it with the most pythoness stick code using that ends with method that will
pretend that you didn't know that since we didn't really cover it.
And sure the more algorithmic way of doing this we will say return the string a minus indexing the length
of B all the way to the end.
And so what this basically is doing is it's asking is the string a minus length of B.
All the way to the end equal to B or is a equal to B minus length of a.
All the way to the end so all we're doing here is we're checking there's a equal to be with the ending
part removed.
And that basically tells you does it end with it.
So take your time.
This syntax may look a little weird but this is all we have to really do.
Again all we're doing here is we're saying this this the string be equal to the length of the all the
way to the end with the negative indexing which basically allows us to go backwards and essentially
we're saying if we look up here at this example if I have the string a b c and the string high ABC I
want to know does the end of this string right here equal the end of the strings.
I'm using the length of the string to check what's going on with the equal length over here which is
why we have a negative starting from the backwards or starting from the last index position.
I should say.
All right so they could time with this one.
This one's a little smoother.
And this one's more algorithmic Okay now for problem 4 we wanted to say given a strong return a string
where for every character in the original There are about two characters.
So what we can do for this is we'll create an output string called result which is just an empty string.
And then we will say for character in my string and we're going to be doing here is taking the results
which is an empty string and then adding to the string character times to
and then all we have to do is at the end of this return the result and that's how the character can
work.
So all we're doing here is essentially continuously concatenating result with the double of the character
that are problem five.
We wanted to do was given those three integer values A B and C returned their sum except for those special
rules.
And why this was called the no tene some.
So we had also the options create this helper function.
So let's show you what we could have done here.
So for this first one this no tene some way you could have done or say return and then we'll say 16
a plus 16 B plus 16 C or 16 is what it's actually doing is just a helper function.
So in this way we keep voiding writing repeated code.
We practice the dry pants principle don't repeat yourself again.
Let's focus on the Finas help her function 16 which really does most of the dirty work.
So what we can do here is say if n is in 13 14 17 18 or 19 that was the conditional list based off the
instructions we want to return 0 and if that's not the case what we're going to be returning is the
actual number.
And so what this does is it calls 16 on each of the three numbers and with 16 itself thus it checks
if and is one of these numbers.
And if it is it just returns 0 otherwise returns the number itself.
And then what we do to actually call this is call no team some along with this fix team.
Otherwise we have to write this code three separate times in noting some break.
Now on to problem 6 the last problem or this probably wanted to return the number of even integers in
the given array.
So some is actually quite simple so let's start off by making a variable called count.
Now we'll set it equal to zero.
And then after that we're going to say for the elements in numbers or for every Now minims we'll say
if that particular element divided by two has a remainder of zero meaning it's even.
So when I say divided by two I really mean remainder I really mean the Mada much later all say counts
gets another one and then after all this we're going to just say return the count.
So again all I'm doing here is I'm sending a count equal to zero going through the elements if the element
is even meaning element 2 is equal to zero.
Add onto the count and then just return the count.
All right that's it for this.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums or to check out the solutions lecture which
has more code and some explanations.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.